Describe broadcasting rules (#983)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/run/primitives.mdx

#### Estimator V2

> * The `run()` method takes an array of PUBs. Each PUB is in the format (`<single circuit>`, `<one or more observables>`, `<optional one or more parameter values>`, `<optional precision>`)

Reviewer: I think that the clarification made for the sampler section about num.circuits/parameters also fits well here (repetition doesn't hurt). It's also good to note that each item of "parameter_values" might contain one or more parameters. What I mean here is that for a circuit with 2 parameters, a pub with 1 circuit, 1 observable and 1 "parameter value" would look like this:

`estimator.run([(circuit, observable, [0.5, 0.5])])`

While 2 "parameter values" would look like this:

`estimator.run([(circuit, observable, [[0.5, 0.5], [0.6, 0.7]])])`

So when we commonly talk about parameter values, we are not talking about individual parameters, we are talking about "sets of parameters" or "arrays of parameters", and the number of parameters in a set depends on the number of parameters in the circuit. Anyway, this is all to preface this small suggestion:

```suggestion
* The `run()` method takes an array of PUBs. Each PUB is in the format (`<single circuit>`, `<one or more observables>`, `<optional one or more parameter values>`, `<optional precision>`). Note that there is only one circuit per PUB, there can be multiple items in `observables` and `parameter values`, and each item of `parameter values` can be a list or a single parameter.
```

> * Takes one parameter: PUBs in the format (`<circuit>`, `<observables>`, `<parameter values>`, `<precision>`) (Note that there is only one circuit and optional `precision` value per PUB, but `parameter values` and `observables` can be lists or a single value.)

Reviewer 2: parameter values are also optional. Now that I'm reading this line, it has some other problems. Estimator V2 `run()` actually takes `pubs` (which is an array of PUB) _and_ `precision` (same goes to Sampler which takes `pubs` and `shots`). 

Would it be clearer if we just say
"
The `run()` method takes an array of PUBs. Each PUB is  in the format (`<single circuit>`, `<one or more observables>`, `<optional one or more parameter values>`, `<optional precision>`)
"

> * Combines elements from multiple arrays by following NumPy broadcasting rules as described below. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Combines elements from observables and parameter values by following NumPy broadcasting rules as described below. 
```

The arrays of observables and parameter values that are input to Estimator must have shapes that are *broadcastable*. That is, the arrays must be able to be combined to create a valid result.  Note that a 0D array is compatible with any size of array, because the contents are duplicated as necessary. For example, a (6,) array and a (3,) array are not compatible because if you try to combine each element, three elements of the first array don't have corresponding elements in the second array.  Therefore, they are not a broadcastable set.  Similarly, a (4,3) array is not compatible with a (,4) array. However, a (4,3) array *is* compatible with a (,3) array. 

`EstimatorV2` returns one expectation value estimate for each element of the broadcasted shape.  

Here are some examples of common patterns expressed in terms of array broadcasting.  Their accompanying visual representation is shown in the figure that follows:

```python
# Broadcast single observable
parameter_values = np.array(1.0)
parameter_values.shape == ()

> observables = ObservablesArray(["III", "XXX", Pauli("YYY"), "ZZZ", Pauli("XYZ")])

Author: > Unfortunately `ObservablesArray` is not a public class, so I'd avoid using it.

I put in SparsePauliOp("Z" * 5) instead.  Would that work?

  * The resulting array will have the same number of dimensions as the input array with the largest dimension. 
  * The size of each dimension is the largest size of the corresponding dimension.
  * Missing dimensions are assumed to have size one.
* Shape comparisons start with the rightmost dimension and continue to the left.
* Two dimensions are compatible if their sizes are equal or if one of them is 1.

Examples of array pairs that broadcast:

```text
A1     (1d array):      1
A2     (2d array):  3 x 5
Result (2d array):  3 x 5

A1     (3d array):  11 x 2 x 7
A2     (3d array):  11 x 1 x 7
Result (3d array):  11 x 2 x 7
```

Examples of array pairs that do not broadcast:

```text
A1     (1d array):  5
A2     (1d array):  3 

A1     (2d array):      2 x 1
A2     (3d array):  6 x 5 x 4 #This would work except for the middle dimensions (2 compared to 5).
```

`EstimatorV2` returns one expectation value estimate for each element of the broadcasted shape.  

Here are some examples of common patterns expressed in terms of array broadcasting.  Their accompanying visual representation is shown in the figure that follows:

```python
# Broadcast single observable

> parameter_values = np.array(1.0)
> parameter_values.shape == ()
> observables = observable = SparsePauliOp("Z" * 5)
> 
> observables.shape == (5,)
> >> task_result.shape == (5,)

Reviewer 2: This changes parameter_values to be (5,) and observables (), to match the picture. 

```suggestion
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(5,))  # this has shape (5,)
observables = SparsePauliOp("ZZZ")  # this has shape ()
>> pub result has shape (5,)
```

# Zip

> parameter_values = BindingsArray(np.random.uniform(size=(5,)))
> parameter_values.shape == (5,)
> observables = SparsePauliOp("Z" * 5)
> observables.shape == (5,)
> >> task_result.shape == (5,)

Reviewer 2: `BindingsArray` also didn't make into the release, so we can just use numpy array.

```suggestion
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(5,))  # this has shape (5,)
observables = [SparsePauliOp(pauli) for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ", "XYZ"]]  # this has shape (5,)
>> pub result has shape (5,)
```

# Outer/Product

> parameter_values = BindingsArray(np.random.uniform(size=(1, 6)))
> parameter_values.shape == (1, 6)
> observables = SparsePauliOp("Z" * 4)
> observables.shape == (4, 1)
> >> task_result.shape == (4,6)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(1, 6))  # this has shape (1, 6)
observables = [[SparsePauliOp(pauli)] for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ"]]  # this has shape (4, 1)
>> pub result has shape (4, 6)
```

# Standard nd generalization

> parameter_values = BindingsArray(np.random.uniform(size=(3, 6)))
> parameter_values.shape == (3, 6)
> observables = SparsePauliOp("Z" * 6)
> observables.shape == (2, 3, 1)
> >> task_result.shape == (3, 6, 2)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(3, 6))  # this has shape (3, 6)
observables = [
    [[SparsePauliOp(['XII'])], [SparsePauliOp(['IXI'])], [SparsePauliOp(['IIX'])]],
    [[SparsePauliOp(['ZII'])], [SparsePauliOp(['IZI'])], [SparsePauliOp(['IIZ'])]]
]  # this has shape (2, 3, 1)
>> pub result has shape (2, 3, 6)
```

> estimator.run([(circuit1, observable1, param_values1),(circuit2, observable2, param_values2) ])

Reviewer: Tiny suggestion:

```suggestion
estimator.run([(circuit1, observable1, param_values1),(circuit2, observable2, param_values2)])
```

Reviewer: I cannot leave an inline suggestion because the code wasn't changed but I was checking the rendered output and the example for EstimatorV1 seems to get cut out, it might make sense to divide it into two lines:

![Screenshot 2024-03-13 at 10 27 54](https://github.com/Qiskit/documentation/assets/57907331/30f2b1bb-06df-4743-9665-56c4c9c019d2)

##### Broadcasting rules

Estimator V2 aggregates elements from multiple arrays (observables and parameter values) by following the same broadcasting rules as NumPy. This section summarizes those rules.  For a detailed explanation, see the [NumPy broadcasting rules documentation.](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/basics.broadcasting.html)

Rules:

* Input arrays do not need to have the same number of dimensions. 
  * The resulting array will have the same number of dimensions as the input array with the largest dimension. 
  * The size of each dimension is the largest size of the corresponding dimension.
  * Missing dimensions are assumed to have size one.
* Shape comparisons start with the rightmost dimension and continue to the left.
* Two dimensions are compatible if their sizes are equal or if one of them is 1.

Examples of array pairs that broadcast:

```text
A1     (1d array):      1
A2     (2d array):  3 x 5
Result (2d array):  3 x 5

A1     (3d array):  11 x 2 x 7
A2     (3d array):  11 x 1 x 7
Result (3d array):  11 x 2 x 7
```

Examples of array pairs that do not broadcast:

```text
A1     (1d array):  5
A2     (1d array):  3 

A1     (2d array):      2 x 1

> A2     (3d array):  6 x 5 x 4 #This would work except for the middle dimensions (2 compared to 5).

Reviewer: Could this be easier to understand?

```suggestion
A2     (3d array):  6 x 5 x 4 # This would work if the middle dimension were 2, but it is 5.
```

```

`EstimatorV2` returns one expectation value estimate for each element of the broadcasted shape.  

Here are some examples of common patterns expressed in terms of array broadcasting.  Their accompanying visual representation is shown in the figure that follows:

```python
# Broadcast single observable
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(5,))  # this has shape (5,)
observables = SparsePauliOp("ZZZ")  # this has shape ()
>> pub result has shape (5,)

# Zip
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(5,))  # this has shape (5,)

> observables = [SparsePauliOp(pauli) for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ", "XYZ"]]  # this has shape (5,)
> >> pub result has shape (5,)
> 
> # Outer/Product
> parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(1, 6))  # this has shape (1, 6)
> observables = [[SparsePauliOp(pauli)] for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ"]]  # this has shape (4, 1)

Reviewer: Again, some of these comments get cut out in the rendered version:

![Screenshot 2024-03-13 at 10 37 32](https://github.com/Qiskit/documentation/assets/57907331/c1ad2df5-ecbb-42ed-a572-05cc0b57b149)
```suggestion
# the observables have shape (5,)
observables = [SparsePauliOp(pauli) for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ", "XYZ"]]
>> pub result has shape (5,)

# Outer/Product
parameter_values = np.random.uniform(size=(1, 6))  # this has shape (1, 6)
# the observables have shape (4, 1)
observables = [[SparsePauliOp(pauli)] for pauli in ["III", "XXX", "YYY", "ZZZ"]]  
```

Author: You can scroll the code examples, but I deleted "this has" from each comment, so I think they fit now.

#### Sampler V2

> * Takes one parameter: PUBs in the format  (`<circuit>`, `<parameter values>`, `<shots>`) (Note that there is only one circuit per PUB and an optional value for `shots`, but `parameter values` can be a list or a single parameter)
> * Elements from each are aggregated. For example, each parameter value in the PUB is applied to the PUB's circuit.

Reviewer: Again, slight rewording regarding parameter values:

```suggestion
* Takes one parameter: PUBs in the format  (`<single circuit>`, `<optional one or more parameter values>`, `<optional shots>`). Note that there is only one circuit per PUB and an optional value for `shots`, but there can be multiple items of `parameter values`, and each item can be either an array or a single parameter (depending on the chosen circuit).
* Elements from each are aggregated. For example, each array of parameter values in the PUB is applied to the PUB's circuit.
```
